# Free Speech License

_Stefan Kamphausen [http://www.skamphausen.de/][14]_

_February 28, 2004_

## 1 Praeambel

### 1.1 License

This document is licensed as described in section 4\.

### 1.2 Version

This is version 1.0.0 of the Free Speech License.

### 1.3 Definitions

The author of the document that has been put under this license has chosen to
put it under this license. From here on that document is refered to as The
Document and the author or group of authors as The Author.

### 1.4 Summary

This license assumes that The Right for Free Speech is an important right and
should be constitutional in all countries. It tries to make a point what Free
Speech is all about and that The Author of The Document only tries to exrpress
him-/herself and should not suffer a major risk from that. This License also
intents to be a good read or even funny.

### 1.5 Using This License

You can put your own documents under this license by stating such and providing
this license or a link to where it can be found.

## 2 Terms of Use

### 2.1 Understanding

This license assumes that you don't fully understand it.

This is very common in other licenses, too. Thus it shouldn't be necessary to
explicitly state this. Nevertheless, you have been warned and continue reading
The Document on your own risk. All the items from this license take effect even
if you don't understand them.

### 2.2 Thinking

You are allowed to think for yourself.

As far as the author of The Document is concerned you may think whatever you
want. This includes thinking about the contents of This Document and to build up
an opinion whether you like it or not. You are allowed to think thoughts that
are derived from The Document. Derived thoughts may appear in you mind while you
are reading The Document and/or later when you think about The Document and/or
its contents.

Thinking for yourself might be against your local or otherwise relevant law in
which case this part of this license is not effective.

### 2.3 Speaking

You are allowed to speak.

As far as the author of The Document is concerned you may speak about your own
thoughts, including those as described in section 2.2 freely. This includes the
right to speak about The Document and/or its contents to other people. When
doing this you are allowed to differ from the opinions of The Author as
described in The Document. You are allowed to say that you don't like The
Document and/or don't agree with it. You are also allowed to like it and to
agree with The Author.

Speaking what you think might be against your local or otherwise relevant law in
which case this part of this license is not effective.

### 2.4 Blaming

You must not blame The Author.

The Author just makes use of his/her Constitutional Right for Free Speech as is
common in many countries. If The Author does not own any such right he/she is
not allowed to use this license anyway.

Blaming someone might be against your local or otherwise relevant law in which
case this part of this license is not effective.

### 2.5 Copying

You are allowed to copy The Document but there should be no need to. The
Document only contains thoughts by The Author in written form. The Author states
by using this license that he/she does not think that thoughts can be owned in
any way or patented or copyrighted. Thus he does not own the contents of The
Document and you are free to use them on your own.

More than that you are allowed to think for yourself (see section 2.2 for
details on this).

Copying something might be against your local or otherwise relevant law in which
case this part of this license is not effective.

### 2.6 Laughing

You are allowed to laugh.

As far as the author of The Document is concerned you may laugh while reading
The Document and/or at and/or about its contents. You are also allowed to laugh
at and/or with The Author about The Document or something completely different.

### 2.7 Parts of The Document

Whenever you are given a right that can be applied to The Document (such as
thinking or speaking about it as described in sections 2.2 and 2.3 respectively)
the same applies to parts of The Document.

## 3 Limitations

### 3.1 Freedom

Freedom is a terminus of ethics and thus not absolute. Your freedom ends where
anotherones freedom begins.

### 3.2 Humor

The Document may contain various forms of humor such as sarcasm, irony, and may
make you laugh.

If you take all this too serious you probably lack a bit of humor.

### 3.3 Salvatoric Clause

If any part of this license might be against the local or otherwise relevant law
or become ineffective in any other way, the rest of the license does not loose
its effect.

## 4 Meta License

This license is a document put under this license as you just read it.

