---
title: Now things get real.
created: 2015-11-19
tags:
  - projects
  - mobile
  - js
---

Just about done the first week of real, solid, mostly back-end funtimes. Which
means, personal projects are about to start. On the one hand, I have ten
thousand ideas and twenty thousand technologies I want to try. (Actually, about
five Javascript frameworks that I think would be suitable, and three major
ideas.) Given the amount of time I've spent on it thus far, I believe I'll be
running with the 'Tinder for Jobs' concept. I'd never even seen the
swipe-whatever-way thing until tonight. Now I've downloaded Tinder, swiped left,
tapped on things, accidentally swiped right, tried sliding things, was
thoroughly disappointed with the super Web 2.0 look and feel, and taken a lot of
notes.

--------

I like the idea of connecting job-seekers with their (hopefully) future
supervisors more directly. Hiring is generally a clusterfuck of cluelessness,
and I'm pretty sure even the demons who founded LinkedIn hate LinkedIn. An
extraordinarily simple, casual way of finding potential matches--professional,
not sexual--seems more in line with the coffee-shop way of finding work that
seems to be on the rise (and that my generation, myself included, definitely
seems to prefer).

Tinder is a weird concept to me. I'm not even remotely conservative, but I'm
used to a culture where one does not think or talk about sex casually. Tinder's
also an unattractive app, but design quality isn't exactly its selling point.
The _immediacy_ is, I think, why people use it. I've got a few articles to read
on the success of Tinder despite its awkwardness, ugliness, and super
controversial...ness.

Anyhow. I still haven't quite decided how I'll be building this thing, or what
to call it (there are two hard things...). But I know what I _won't_ be using,
and I know how I want it to act, and I've a fair idea of how it'll look (though
without a decent design tool I'm finding it incredibly hard to sketch out my
thoughts).

On that topic, I'll have to actually boot up into that dusty, disused Winblow$
partition sometime soon. I dislike everything about the idea, and I'm not
incredibly enthused about reinstalling CS6, but if I'm going to get anything
done quickly, I think it's best to follow my mentor's advice and just use stuff
that I either already know or that I know I can pick up **very** quickly.

Speaking of the mentor, I've got another project, which thus far has taken Up
most of my actual attention, because I find it far more interesting than blog
posts like 'The UX of Sex', or 'How Some Butt-Ugly Speed Dating App Helps
Socially Awkward People Like You Experience Physical Relations Sometimes'...
and also because it's something I feel a lot more confident about building. I
don't really know what I'm doing, here. A lot of fumbling around and quite a
bit of faking it, I think. But, then, imposter syndrome is apparently very
common, so maybe that's my problem.

So, okay, [here's a quick little
mockup](http://zacanger.com/blog/assets/img/mockup-1.png) I tried to put
together in Inkscape earler tonight. It's definitely not how I'm feeling about
things, exactly, but I gave up after a bit because _**fuck Inkscape**_,
basically.

Aaaand that's all. Goodnight.
