---
title: "This Here's A Test!"
created: 2015-09-27
tags:
  - meta
  - bashblog
  - markdown
  - blogging
---

Well, all right! This is just a little test. I've tried what may well be five or
six dozen static site/blog generators over the past few months, and I'm back at
two of the ones I tried
first--[Bashblog](https://github.com/cfenollosa/bashblog) and
[Baker](https://github.com/taylorchu/baker). They're both written in bash, and
both pretty simple. I dig bashblog's one-file thing, and kind of like the
extreme simplicity of the post-editing format, but it's a little sloppy and
requires some disassembly to actually configure. Baker's quite a bit easier to
work with, and quite a bit more attractive by default, but it's also about three
times the size of bashblog. Both of them seem to have Discus/disquszszs/diskust
really stuck in there, and I'm not actually in the mood to sign up for yet
_another_ social platform, so... we'll have to see about that. OH, and neither
one wants to use an alternate implementation of Markdown. not that I mind,
there's nothing terribly wrong with the original one from [John
Gruber](http://daringfireball.net), but I'd prefer to at least have that option.
There are versions in C and Python that I like (and the C is obviously much
faster), as well as the various Javascript implementations that are all the rage
these days. It'd also be nice to work with some extensions. I'm never sure
what's kosher in the original because I rarely use it, but I'm fairly certain I
can't do tables and syntax hightlighting here.

ANYWAY. This is just a quick first post, as a test. I'll be doing the same in
Baker, and then following up by (gradually) reposting all of my archived blog
posts from other platforms, and saved drafts/notes in my Dropbox.

Cheers!

-Z
