---
title: Advice For New Devs
created: 2016-11-12
starred: true
tags:
  - devmtn
  - tips
  - dev
---

So, I went to one of those code bootcamps. I started there just over a year ago,
and when I finished the course I worked there as a mentor for a cohort (three
months). Immediately after that, I got what I think is a pretty swell job doing
development full time, working mostly in technologies that I really like.

It's hard to find non-success stories from bootcamps, since generally the people
who go to these things are people who are really determined to do very well. You
don't go and pay $10k-$20k to lock yourself up in a building with a bunch of
other nerds for twelve or moure hours every day for three months straight unless
you really want to get something out of it. I think I'm a good example of
someone who did really well through a bootcamp, though, and the reason I did so
well comes down to really just one thing, which I think everyone going into
computing (whether it's web development, databases, hardware, whatever) really
should be aware of.

> KNOW COMPUTERS

That seems really obvious, right? But as a mentor it was amazing to me how many
people would come into a course that's just about making things happen with
computers, not knowing a lot of the basics of how to _use_ a computer, and
knowing virtually nothing about how computers actually _work_. They're not just
a thing with a keyboard and a screen and a logo on the back. They're not just a
status symbol, though Mac users would like you to think they are. They're not
magical, and it's important to know what they do and how they do it, at least in
vague terms.

No junior web dev should really be expected to be familiar with what a page
cache is, or maybe even how domain names are resolved, but you should at least
know what a kernel is, what userland actually means, what the implications of
using your particular filesystem are, what the internet infrastructure kind of
looks like (at least in vague terms), and how to do some basic things that will
save you a lot of time later on (general terminal usage is a good place to
start).

This is the number one thing that can help you get, and stay, ahead as a student
and junior dev, in my opinion. And it's stuff you'll absolutely _have_ to know
at some point, and probably mostly won't be taught, so it's a good idea to just
pick up this stuff as early as possible.
