---
title: ANGULAAAAARRRRR
created: 2015-11-01
tags:
  - javascript
  - bash
  - school
  - people
  - baas
---

...is fun. Also a pain. But fun.

I'm 239% sure I'm falling wayyy behind, but I'm also about 72% sure I started
with a fairly decent headstart--not first in the cohort, for sure, but maybe
around fifth. I think I'll catch up again (hush, I know it's not a race, but I
don't want to be lagging) once we start back-end stuff. Maybe. Angular is nice
and all, but for whatever reason I just can't seem to focus on it for long.
Probably because somewhere deep down in my brain, I just can't bring myself to
love the idea of that much client-side work. It feels like one of those really
awesome things built by people who've never owned really shitty devices, or even
average ones.

----------

Things are patched with the roommate. There were words, and things are better.
Still awkward, a bit, I guess, but okay. There's social things afoot,
too--halloween was fun, and there are a few folks here I believe I genuinely
like (shocker, right?). More than one happens to be female, (which is somewhat
amusing given the mostly-single almost-all-male sort of crowd we have here),
but that's not likely to be an issue. Certainly not from their end, and almost
definitely not from mine (I_think_ I know better, by now). Staying focussed
and getting shit done is pretty vital here. So, being an awkward, unfriendly,
unattractive dude has its perks.

Anyhow. It's late. Angular again tomorrow and Tuesday, then an Angular review
day, then two days of Firebase. Not sure how I feel about that last. It'll be
nice to know, I guess, but personally, I'd so much rather start learning
actual backend stuff. Spending two precious days on one single BaaS company
(and a Google-owned one, right after a week and a half of Angular...) seems a
bit much. I do already have an account with them, though, which'll be nice,
and a tiny bit of familiarity--they bought Divshot, with whom I had an
account, so I figured I ought to check them out a little bit.

Bah. Three articles to read, a couple of messy directories to tidy up, and I
suppose I'll put on the coffee for the morning. I think I'll need to ditch
this bash-based blog generator pretty soon--I've already worked up a sort of
Angular generator with Grunt, and another with Yeoman, so maybe soon I can
actually make usable things with Javascript. G'nite.
