---
title: Meditation Log
created: 2020-12-18
starred: true
tags:
  - buddhism
  - meditation
---

# Meditation Log

This will be a continually-updated document, rather than a series of separate
posts, presented in reverse-chronological order. Since I usually meditate at
night, entries will generally be written the next day.

[TOC]

## 2020-12-18

Last night I got started late due to work, so was worried I wouldn't have
time before needing to get to sleep. I tried to maintain mindfulness during
everyday activities (washing, washing; brushing, brushing; left foot, right
foot, left foot, turning, turning). Before bed, I sat doing concentration
practice with the prajnaparamita mantra (gate gate paragate parasamgate bodhi
svaha), initially in sync with the breath but then diverging. After around 40
minutes, the discomfort in my knees and hips was becoming hard to ignore, and
since I had resolved to stick to samatha practices, rather than try to
examine the pain I decided to recline, and I also switched to a simpler
mantra (buddho). About ten minutes into this, the mantra sort of faded into
the background, replaced by some common early visuals (white swirling light
type stuff). I focused on that a bit more, and suddenly had a shallow mental
image of spinning lights, like a carousel without horses or riders and with
long tassels of Christmas lights along and slung out from its ceiling, in
bright colors. That shallow mental thought almost immediately solidified into
a concrete visualization which seemed extremely real (I was fully aware that
it wasn't truly there, but it had depth and seemed to really be there). My
eyes were still closed, but I could clearly see it spinning along where my
wall and ceiling met. A deep sense of happiness and something like awe struck
me, I felt it heavily in my chest. The whole experience lasted for probably
less than a second, but it was extremely intense. Afterwards, I at first
tried to cling to it for a breath or two, but then realized that was the
point; it was over and I needed to understand that it was never going to be
permanent. I went back to focusing on the mantra (buddho) for another ten or
fifteen minutes before going to sleep.

---

## 2020-12-17

Last night I had very little luck, but the night before a strange
visualization happened. Out of the fuzzy/swirly black and white field, in the
bottom right corner, I clearly saw some sort of black-clothed figure. The
clothing was like something out of a fantasy movie, a wispy robe with long
trailers or tatters that were blowing in all directions and pushing into or
overlapping part of the mostly white field behind my eyelids. This was after
a good amount of time doing mantra practice. No idea what it means except
maybe that my ability to concentrate is improving.

---

## 2020-12-16

I don't think there's much value in adding entries to this log unless
something notable happened, so I'll be skipping days here.

---

## 2020-12-15

The past couple of days have been extraordinarily stressful, and that will
probably continue for at least the next few weeks. I'm finding that eyes-open
meditation in daily life can help somewhat. Mantra meditation, even for 3-5
minutes if done sincerely, seems to slow everything down and chill everything
out.

---

## 2020-12-14

Since I usually meditate before going to sleep, most of the entries here will
probably be written the next day about the previous night. I attempted to
reproduce the experience from the 12th (or 10th or 11th, not sure of the
exact date). I didn't set a firm resolution when I got started, so I bounced
between different mantras and the breath for a few minutes, but eventually
stabilized on "bu-dho" again, while reclining. After maybe five minutes, I
was able to interact with the nimitta in interesting ways. I could move it
around with my will, though it didn't always respond exactly the way I
thought it would, and not always immediately. I also tried using my hands to
move it and shape it, with similar results. I could vaguely make out the
shape of my hands (my eyes were closed and this was in a dark room, so it was
a mental image), and they were definitely larger than usual, and seemed to be
made out of some sort of darkness (not in a creepy way, just in a way that
contrasted with the nimitta). I could squeeze, shape, poke, and swirl around
the light in this way. I don't know if this had any value, but it was an
interesting experience. I tried to use this to jump into insight practice by
trying to notice aspects of the three characteristics, but then my
concentration fell apart and it ended. I think I'm pretty weak on both the
concentration and insight sides of practice, but making some progress.

---

## 2020-12-13

Some background since I started the log late: I started meditating more over
last winter, but didn't really make it anywhere until spring or maybe early
summer 2020. I'd used some basic sort of mindfulness practice years ago in
therapy, but got back into the idea after reading "Why Buddhism Is True". I
also read some of the major Mahayana and Theravada sutras, then MCTB1, TMI,
and then MCTB2, all of which made a big impact. I've attended (online) sangha
on and off (a Plum Village one mostly), and have tried out techniques from
various traditions. After trying noting practice for a while, and also trying
to find the beginnings and ends of breaths as emphasized in parts of TMI, I
realized there was something to this stuff. Basically, when they say "if you
follow these instructions you will get these results", they mean it. So I'm a
believer now. All of the map theory in MCTB is very interesting to me, and I
think, using the main maps Dr. Ingram presents there, it would be reasonable
to say that I had an A&P event when I was 14 (in a Christian context), and
spent the following 15 years or so dealing with the Dark Night. That lines up
too well with my experience to completely discount it, anyway. So now my
focus is on moving past that, but also in learning and experimenting with
these different techniques. Kasina meditation sounds very handy, so I think
I'll want to read the Visuddhimagga and Vimuttimagga sometime soon, too. I
don't know enough, doctrinally, to say I absolutely belong with one specific
tradition or lineage, but Theravada techniques seem to work for me, but I
also like some of the aspects of Chan/Thien/Zen, and am starting to
appreciate the Vajrayana. Maybe I'm en Ekayana Buddhist, if there is such a
thing.

---

## 2020-12-12

Not sure of the exact date, could be the 10th or 11th too. This comes a few
days after taking the bodhisattva vows (on the 5th). These days were
high-tension. I had been having trouble solidifying the breath as an object.
This night, I tried mantra instead â€” initially the prajnaparamita mantra from
the heart sutra, I think, but then I switched to just "bu-dho" with the in
and out breath. After maybe 3 or 4 minutes of this, things had become really
thick and syrupy, like my perception was muffled but in a pleasant way, but
it also took some effort to clearly mentally "hear" the mantra. But then as
soon as I noticed that muffled/thick quality, it was like that warm
yellow-brown thickness got cleaned out in an instant, and everything was
clear. I could hear "bu-dho" clearly but didn't feel like I needed to focus
on it as much, and mentally there was a feeling of crispness, like the brown
and yellow had been replaced with a cool blueish white and deep black. That
change startled me enough that I wasn't able to stay in it, though. I don't
know if this was just making it into the first jhana, or mind and body (I
wasn't really doing anything like noting practice so I assume not), but it
felt like progress, so I hope I can do it again.
