---
title: My Website Is Boring
created: 2023-07-15
tags:
  - meta
---

My website is boring, and that's how I like it. Recently I've been going through
the long and painful process of finding a new role. In the old days, this wasn't
long or painful; I could email People Ops just about anywhere besides a FAANG
and have an interview the next week. Now, it takes hundreds of cold applications
to get a single response.

So I've been looking at what other folks are doing. One piece of advice I see
often is to have a flashy "portfolio" site. I don't know what that means outside
of frontend and design contexts. My portfolio is my CV and my GitHub. A quick
internet search turns up a slew of websites that weigh _megabytes_, convey
little information, and are painful on the eyes. I don't expect every page I
visit to be all that great for A11Y, but if you've got a flashing background on
a site where the main purpose is to inform recruiters that you actually have
done work in the past... why?

My site is simple. Some of it is written directly in HTML. Some is HTML
generated from Markdown, by a little [Python
script](https://github.com/zacanger/zacanger.github.io/blob/master/blog/blog.py),
because I don't need a framework to do these simple tasks. Yes, it has a few
dependencies, but just the ones I really need. There is no theme, there's just
[some
CSS](https://github.com/zacanger/zacanger.github.io/blob/master/styles.css). The
only JavaScript is an [external
library](https://github.com/zacanger/zacanger.github.io/blob/master/presentations/2019-06-26-git-workflows/index.html#L125)
for presentations, and if it doesn't load, no problem, the presentations are
still plenty readable in their original Markdown format.

It is _okay_ to have a boring website. The purpose of a website like this is to
convey information: this is me, this is what I'm about, this is where I've
worked, these are links to other places where I exist on the internet. I'm
pretty good at writing software, but part of being good at writing software is
knowing when you don't need something. We should all be okay with sites that are
lightweight, simple, and minimal (actually minimal, not "it's all shades of grey
and thin Arial-ish typefaces!" minimal).

If you disagree, you're welcome to open a PR at the link below and tell me why
I'm wrong, or just go build your own website. If it requires WebGL just to tell
me how to reach you, I won't sit around and wait for it to render.
