---
title: The Question Of Tibet
created: 2020-12-26
starred: true
tags:
  - politics
  - china
  - tibet
  - buddhism
---

[TOC]

## Introduction

I don't usually blog about politics, but as both a Buddhist with a deep
appreciation for the Vajrayana and its syncretic Tibetan forms (Buddhism, like
most religions, tends to absorb bits of other religions when it goes somewhere
new; the Taoist and folk religion influence on Chan and Theravada influence on
Thien are good examples of this), and as a Marxist who critically supports the
Chinese Communist Party (some would call me a Dengist and think that's an
insult), I've thought a lot about the political and religious situation in
Tibet.

If you watch any documentary that has anything to do with Tibetan Buddhism, and
it was produced anywhere other than in China, you're likely to be inundated with
political posturing whether you realize it or not (Sinophobia is so ingrained in
Western, and especially American, culture, that we frequently don't even realize
that we're hearing racist and imperialist propaganda when it comes to China!).
As far as I can tell, the people putting this stuff out there fall into two
camps: blatantly anti-Communist and/or anti-Chinese State-department fans
and/or racists who see the Dalai Lama and Tibet as a tool they can use to
demonize the PRC or CPC, and those who are well-meaning but uneducated and not
capable of critical thinking on a complex subject like the history of Tibet.

Tibet is complicated, and anyone uncritically supporting (including unwittingly)
the so-called government-in-exile _or_ the Communist Party of China's history in
Tibet should really take a deeper look. I'll address both viewpoints.

## Addressing the Anti-Communist Viewpoint

The common perception of pre-Communist Tibet in the global north is of an
idyllic, highly religious, peaceful society. This is a fabrication. Tibet was a
theocratic dictatorship (I don't often use the word 'dictatorship', since in
America, everyone we don't like is a dictator and everyone we do like is a
benevolent leader, but this case warrants it) for much of its history, and until
the communists reclaimed the region, was extremely poor (it's still poor, but
less extremely) and essentially a feudal society, with serfs (some media will
say slaves). Tibet was not like Bhutan is now, with a state religion and a
monarchy but a largely happy and productive society. Think something more like
the Taliban. The period between 1912 and 1950 was not a happy time for the
average Tibetan under the theocratic absolute monarchy of the Gelug sect.

There is also a common misunderstanding about Tibetan Buddhism, namely that the
Dalai Lama represents all Buddhists in Tibet. It's true that the Gelug sect was
predominant since the time of the 5th Dalai Lama (17th century), but it is just
one of four major Buddhist traditions (and there are other smaller sects
besides). The Dalai Lama represents the Gelug tradition, which held political
power for roughly three centuries, of which two centuries were actually under
Qing rule, which brings me to the next point.

The fact that Tibet was only (de facto) independent in recent centuries for a
few decades is almost always completely conveniently ignored. It was considered
a part of the Qing Dynasty since the early 1700s, and retaken by China in 1950.
Before Qing, Tibet was independent for roughly four centuries, and before that
it was under the Yuan. Going back to before the 10th century the history is
equally mixed. I'll address whether that's actually a justification for Chinese
governance later.

Tibet is also an extremely poor region, and that factors heavily into how the
CPC works with it. The Tibet Autonomous Region has 90% of its government costs
paid for by the central government, and Tibet is exempt from paying taxes.
China's crusade to end absolute poverty succeeded in October 2020. Tibet is
still poor, but by sending teams to improve infrastructure and education,
utilities, internet connectivity, and develop agricultural, commerce, and
manufacturing industries, the CPC has worked hard to raise the average net
income per person from roughly $220 to $1400 in four years in a sustainable way.
That's not a lot of money, but it's a lot more than it was.

On the myth of cultural genocide or "Sinicization": that is largely a myth, just
as it is in the case of Xinjiang. Tibet is roughly 90% ethnically Tibetan, and
culturally still very much Tibet. The primary point most people make about this
is that photos of the Dalai Lama were banned for a period and political (and
religious) groups supporting him and the Central Tibetan Administration (the
government in exile) have been repressed. Think about this in generic terms to
bypass your internalized Sinophobia: If a government knows that there are groups
actively supporting an organization that wants to overthrow part of your
government, and that organization is partially supported and funded by other
governments that are active enemies of your government who are known for a long
history of staging coups and invasions far outside of its borders, is it
reasonable to try to weed that out? Once you take out words like "China" and
"Tibet", it probably seems pretty reasonable, even to Americans.

The last point I'll make here is that the government in exile and ant-Communist
activity in Tibet were and likely still are heavily backed, funded, and trained,
by the CIA, which is not known for spreading democracy and doing good deeds. The
CIA overthrows democracies and destroys nations for capital and political gains.
It's not the kind of organization you want on your side.

## Addressing the Pro-Communist Viewpoint

All that said, China is not necessarily in the right. This is a complicated
subject and can't be reduced to "The Dalai Lama had slaves so China did the
right thing".

The fact that Tibet has not been a truly independent state for more than 40
years in a long, long time, to me, is not actually all that important. Let's
apply the same logic to the United States (with the obvious caveat that this is
not an equal comparison, since the United States is a settler-colonial empire
initially ruled by slaver landowners and now ruled by billionaires through their
millionaire political pawns in both major parties, and also China didn't kill
tens of millions of Tibetans....), and see how that works out. The indigenous
peoples of the United States might have some opinions about whether having been
occupied for centuries by Europeans is actually justification for continuing
occupation. The same could be said about less brutal and oppressive empires than
the US.

China's re-taking of Tibet, whether justified or not, was not not done well. In
hindsight it could be seen as a liberation, but, like the Great Leap Forward and
Cultural Revolution, there were many many mistakes made, some of them
disastrous. That shouldn't be a point of debate among Marxists, even Maoists,
because Marxism is not about dogma and leader-worship, it's about careful
analysis. The annexation and effects of the Cultural Revolution in particular
were unduly destructive of life, culture, and history. Important religious sites
were destroyed. It didn't have to be that way. (If you're a Marxist who loves
the "opium of the people" quote and uses that to justify some country or
another's religious oppression, I challenge you to read the entire quote, in
context, from the _Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right_, while keeping in
mind that opium was seen largely as a painkiller and nothing more in the early
1800s in Europe. The problem with religion from a Marxist standpoint is
organized religion as a political tool of capital, not religion in and of
itself.)

## My Position

I'm not Chinese, and I'm not Tibetan either, so my personal opinion isn't worth
anything. If there was a movement for an independent Tibet that wasn't backed by
imperialist nations to try to win political points against China and restore the
theocratic rule of one of four major sects of Tibetan Buddhism, that might be an
idea worth considering. There isn't, and even the current Dalai Lama no longer
calls for something like that, so it's really a moot point (or would be, if the
CIA and their Hollywood stooge mouthpieces would let it go). Right now, in 2020,
it makes sense to support what the CPC is doing in Tibet, despite their mixed
history for the first thirty or so years in Tibet.

Taking a hardline stance either way shows a lack of critical thinking, and is
especially prevalent among Maoist types and pro-US-empire "Buddhists". That's
not Marxism, it's also not the Middle Way. I hope this little post helped bring
you some clarity on the Tibet issue.

## Further Reading

* [What we don't hear about
  Tibet](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2009/feb/10/tibet-china-feudalism)
* [The CIA's Secret War in
  Tibet](https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/ct-xpm-1997-01-26-9701270002-story.html)
* [Dalai Lama's CIA Brother
  Dies](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-tibet/dalai-lamas-pro-independence-brother-dies-in-u-s-idUSPEK19832520080906)
* [Tibet: The CIA's Cancelled
  War](https://www.nybooks.com/daily/2013/04/09/cias-cancelled-war-tibet/)
* [The Dalai Lama and the CIA](https://www.umsl.edu/~thomaskp/dalai.htm)
* [How China's Toughest Battleground Defeated Absolute
  Poverty](https://news.cgtn.com/news/2020-10-16/How-Tibet-eliminated-absolute-poverty-despite-harsh-climate--UDkSdO4J5S/index.html)
